When starting to do data mining
1. Ensure a full understanding of the business and data;

A. Ideological issues: What kind of person you want to be, you must first think according to that kind of person. To truly understand business scenarios and explore needs. ##The essence of data mining is a method, which requires 1. In-depth study of the business and understanding of the key points of the business; 2. Full communication with the company during the demand phase of the project, and timely adjustments when deviations are discovered; 3. When specifying OKRs It’s time to work out it together with the business side.

B. Understand what can and cannot be done: 1. Understand the requirements and goals of the business; 2. Understand the points to be solved by data mining ##Technology is by no means omnipotent in business.

Situations that may actually be encountered:
1. Data is not perfect: the data may be incomplete and difficult to process; a lot of effort is required for data wrangling;
2. Business conditions are not perfect: cross-team collaboration is a problem. Therefore, it is necessary to fully communicate with the business to improve timeliness. ##

C. Can only provide maximum solutions with limited resources and conditions.
1. Communicate in depth with the business, have a full understanding of the data I have, and clearly distinguish the difficulties and key points of the business;
2. Establish a multi-party demand assessment mechanism to involve business experts and technical experts to evaluate the rationality of the demand and your data situation;
3. Disassemble the requirements to maximize the project effect under the premise of data restrictions and business restrictions;

For example, the novel platform evaluates contribution standards. For an author, the contribution is reflected in his content:
a. Content with a high CTR (click-through rate) has a higher contribution, or content with a unique point of view has a higher contribution?
b. Does content that can spark discussions have a higher contribution, or content with a deeper technical depth?
c. Does publishing content more frequently lead to higher contribution, or does publishing content that is long enough lead to higher contribution?
This should be communicated and an expert group should be set up to review the goals.

Next, you need to know the data used well.
collect. storage. Converting data is a very important step
1. Is there such a data set?
2. How many data sets are there?
3. What kind of data is it and what are its attributes?
(Whether these dimensions can support the completion of business requirements)
4. Labels (such as supervised learning, each piece of data needs to be labeled with results, which is also the result of the model or algorithm to learn)
开始做数据挖掘的时候
一. 确保对业务及数据有充分的理解；

A. 思想问题：要做什么样的人，要先去按照那样的人去思考。要真正理解业务场景与挖掘需求。##数据挖掘本质是一个方法，要1. 深入学习业务，明白业务的关键点；2. 在项目的需求阶段与也无妨进行充分的沟通，在发现偏差时及时调整；3. 在指定OKR的时候与业务方来共同制定。

B. 明白可以为/不可以为：1. 明白业务的要求以及目标；2. 明白数据挖掘要解决的点在哪里 ##技术在业务上绝不是万能的。

实际上可能遇到的情况：
1. 数据不完美：数据可能是残缺的导致不容易进行处理；要付出大量的努力进行data wrangling；
2. 业务条件不完美：跨团队的协作两目。所以要和业务充分沟通，提升时效性。## 

C. 只能在有限的资源与条件下去提供最大化的解决方案。
1. 与业务深入沟通，对我所掌握的数据有充分认识，对业务的难点和重点有明确区分；
2. 建立需求多方评估机制，让业务专家与技术专家参与进来，评估需求的合理性以及你的数据情况；
3. 对需求进行拆解，以最大化在数据限制和业务限制前提下的项目效果；

比如小说平台评价贡献度的标准，对于一个作者，贡献度体现在他的内容上：
a. CTR(点击率)高的内容贡献度高，还是有独特观点的内容贡献度高？
b. 能引发讨论的内容贡献度高，还是技术深度更深的内容贡献度高？
c. 发布内容的频率高贡献度高，还是发布的内容够长贡献度高？
这是应该展开沟通，并成立专家小组对目标进行评审。

接下来需要对用到的数据了如指掌
收集。存储。转换数据都是十分重要的环节
1. 是否有这样一个数据集？
2. 有多少数据集？
3. 是什么样的数据，有哪些属性？
（这些维度是否可以支持完成业务需求）
4. 标签（如监督学习，每条数据都需要有结果的标注，这也是模型或者算法要学习的结果）
